---
layout: layout_2020
---

# Project 1: Hack the Remote
<br>

<!---
[Schedule / Sign-up Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1TZk_ZS77JWXG2QIW0aoToBBthpK1EIJgyQVd7vsh1TU/edit?usp=sharing) 👈
-->

In teams of 2, pick one of the existing remote collaboration tools. Together, collaboratively, find a new, unusual, beautiful or poetic way of using the tool. Test the boundaries of the constraints that the tool has. Can you break or appropriate them in unexpected ways?

Document your experience in a one minute video, for instance through screen capturing on both ends. 

Upload your group's video to the [Shared google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1xxNfOhXjpuiHOYRyWp9zs_CboEhjrgsw?usp=sharing). Write a one paragraph description about your idea and experience. Submit your [project]({{ layout.submissionform }}) by **Wednesday Sept. 9 11:59pm**. Also submit the [peer assessment form]({{ layout.peerassessform }})  for the project at the sane time.

Be ready to present it during the next class on Thursday, Sept. 10.

[Pick an online collaboration platform and add your name here.](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Lfr6328Ewf3uEwu3q9e_N4DK9OPmgIzKAgsyYVmWPUQ/edit#gid=0)

### Some notes

- Try to constrain yourself to one functionality (i.e. only text if you use a chat tool)
- Explore the possibility space within your chosen functionality
- It has to work as a one minute video, so think of the narrative arc of it
- For popular platforms, find at least one creative use that already exists. Don’t recreate what already exists, i.e. an existing Zoom Game. 
- Have fun!

### Grading Criteria
- How novel and unusual your hack is
- Aesthetic quality as a hack
- How well it works in the video
– The collaboration between you two
