---
layout: layout_2020
---

# Project 3: Remote Senses
<br>

Create a visceral experience of connection through remote senses. Imagine for example, how a physical interface could for convey an ambient sense of presence, rather than pushing notifications. Consider how it relates to the body and what senses besides visual and auditory it can address. Describe aspects like form, scale and materiality of the device.  

Submit your [report]({{ layout.submissionform }}) and individually, your [peer assessments]({{ layout.peerassessform }}) for Project 3 by the due dates indicated below:

### Week 1: Precedent research / Hardware hack
**Due 10/14, 11:59pm**

#### Part 1: Research 
After having completed Protocol and having read the first reading, we will start by collecting references. In the [slack channel # project3-remotesenses](https://elasticspacesfall2020.slack.com/archives/C01C0EWEW2X) please post 3 items you find relevant for this topic:   
- a design/art/HCI precedent project that you find relevant for remote senses. 
- An academic paper, an article or piece of text you find relevant for remote senses
- A fictional example from a book or a movie 

For each of the three, add a short paragraph of why you personally chose this reference and why you think it could be relevant for Remote Senses. Be prepared to speak to it in class. Feel free to add more items and you are encouraged to react and comment on each other’s research.

#### Part 2: Set up Arduino
Follow [these instructions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IsyALHika9kSgpsuAQLuBg7p4fcRTG4XwLIa6o_42jk/edit#) to set up a custom project that talks to P5.JS on your Arduino. 

#### Part 3: Create an object
Create a connected object. It does not have to be functional at all, but you have to explain how it would act as a physical sensor and/or output. You can consider the sensors, inputs and outputs that are built into the Circuit playground express: Button, Capacitive Touch, Thermometer, Microphone, Speaker, IMU, LED. Or you could use think of other interfaces, like motors or soil moisture sensor. Do not worry about having being able to build a functional version - this is a concept device only, and it also does not have to be pursued further beyond this assignment. But it has to be physical. Be crazy, provocational, reflective, or non-sensical.

Make a 30 second video, upload it to the [shared google drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1YGiPkh6qPra6kqBiINl-GC22SUdk4L-f) Post the video to the [shared project 3 Slack channel](https://elasticspacesfall2020.slack.com/archives/C01C0EWEW2X). And make sure to comment on each other's ideas!

### Week 2: Ideation
[Partner with a teammate](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1vifyGlvypIhkTvPao_CJ_TqlBpGpCyoKI2DYXeuQy6w/edit#gid=0) and create three ideas for remote senses.
Some of the characteristics of augmenting our senses through technology are: 
- Connection: Connect to people or beings who are outside our reach due to physical distance, or have a different sensory range
- Expansion: Extend the range of our sensory capabilities, such as hearing ultrasound, seeing infrared, or feeling magnetism
- Empathy: Understand others through sharing an experience, by mimicking their sensory capabilities or their expressive range

As you propose 3 ideas for remote senses, feel free to interpret the ideas of “Remoteness” and “Sense” liberally. Consider if there are precedents for your project ideas and carefully consider why your idea should exist in the world. Is it utilitarian, critical, poetic? 

**Deliverables:**
- Develop 3 different ideas
- Each idea needs a name
- Sketch them in one self-explanatory slide
- Create a schematic
- Place your 3 ideas in the [shared Miro board](https://miro.com/app/board/o9J_kiSkM2w=/)
**Due 10/21, 11:59pm**

### Week 3: Create prototype mockup
- Decide on one of the 3 concepts - this could also be a combination or variation
- Incorporate feedback and suggestions
- Develop a design mockup
- Explore a technical prototype: How would you make your mockup functional?
- Design & Tech should complement each other
- Your project needs a name and a one sentence description/tagline.   
- Add them to the shared slide deck here: [Project 3 Idea Slide Deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1VtoYNB-C4fg3KcLUH5txDUlVd641p8F36NcwaTc3c4c/edit#slide=id.ga4a313236a_0_4)  

#### Exercise: Connect Arduino through P5.party
Follow [these instructions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nLZMPcWw9nD1vs6GvNadeW3f0BT-rKQqVDFuBvPb6n8/edit#) to connect your Playground Express input through P5.party

**Due 10/29, 4:30pm**

### Week 4: Create final
**Due 11/4, 11:59pm**

### Grading Criteria
- Novelty of idea and concept: Did you find and consider related work?
- Communication and documentation of your project: Do you have a video? Is your audience, purpose and context well-described? 
- Technical prototype and execution: Does it convey your idea and concept well? 
- Process documentation: Evolution of your project ideas and prototype iterations
