---
layout: layout_2020
---

# Project 4: Elastic Spaces
<br>
Imagine a new space for remote togetherness for multiple parties. Consider the physical, the virtual and the space in between. Define the rules and protocols that define this space. Think how this space is different from other spaces, think about the form: Does it expand, shrink, accelerate, decelerate, enable, restrain? 

Submit your [report]({{ layout.submissionform }}) and individually, your [peer assessments]({{ layout.peerassessform }}) for Project 4 by the due dates indicated below:

### Week 1: Team Formation

### Week 2: Create mockup of idea
Add your idea for the Elastic Spaces Project to the shared slide deck: [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1X53zFCkhcMXCHhFDglxbIBpAGjyd9Wab_dKi6EmxiMI/edit?usp=sharing)
**Due 11/19, 4:20pm**

### Week 3: Create prototype
No submission this week. Be ready to discuss your progress with us.
- Refine your mockup based on last week's mockup feedback
- Develop into a prototype that conveys the feel and interactivity of your idea.
- Design & Tech should complement each other. Discuss with us, what format your final prototype should take.

### Week 4: Create final
**Due 12/10, 4:20pm**
Add your project information to the shared slide deck: Project 4 Final Deck
- Name
- One-line/paragraph description
- 3 carefully designed images
- Link or documentation of your prototype
- Protocol and schematic
- Optional: video
- 4 min. presentation

### Grading Criteria
- Novelty of idea and concept: Did you find and consider related work?
- Communication and documentation of your project: Do you have a video? Is your audience, purpose and context well-described? 
- Technical prototype and execution: Does it convey your idea and concept well? 
- Process documentation: Evolution of your project ideas and prototype iterations
